Hades II is an upcoming roguelike action role-playing game video game developed and published by Supergiant Games, serving as a sequel to Hades (2020). It was announced in December 2022 and was released in early access in May 2024 for Windows and in October 2024 for macOS, with plans to bring the game to consoles after the early access period. The game follows Melinoë, Princess of the Underworld and sister to Zagreus, the protagonist of the first game. Melinoë aims to defeat Chronos, the Titan of Time, with the aid of other Olympian Gods. 

Like the first game, Hades II is a roguelike dungeon crawler game. Set "sometime" after the events of Hades in the same universe, the sequel stars Melinoë, Princess of the Underworld and sister to the protagonist of the first game, Zagreus. Alongside her mentor Hecate, she aims to defeat Chronos, the titan of time, who returned to enact revenge on all gods and mortals who opposed him in the past and took her family prisoner. Returning from Hades is "God Mode", which allows the player to gain more power after each run. New to the game is the "Magick Bar," a combat resource used for moves that recharges by attacking enemies. Unlike the original game which had a single path from Tartarus to the surface across four different biomes, the sequel introduces two different paths, one from Erebus to Tartarus and another from Ephyra to Mount Olympus. 

Hades, which was first released in early access in 2018 and had its full release in 2020, was Supergiant's most successful game by that point, but lead writer Greg Kasavin said the team was undecided as to if the game would receive a sequel. Typical of Supergiant's process, after completing a game, the team determines what project next created the most excitement for the team, and it was realized that many on the team felt there were still more stories and mythological characters they could explore that were not included in Hades that made a prospect of a sequel the preferred option.[9] However, as this would also be the studio's first sequel, they were aware they wanted to expand on Hades in meaningful ways without losing the core of the original game. Studio head Amir Rao cited examples of Portal 2 and Diablo II as successful sequels they wanted to follow.[9] Work on the sequel began near the start of 2021.

Kasavin said that they knew early on that they did not want to return to Zagreus as the main character. He began researching more into Greek mythology, coming across the Orphic Hymns, one which described Melinoë as the daughter of Hades and Persephone but otherwise little else written about her. Besides the family connection to Zagreus, Supergiant has not mentioned her at all within Hades, allowing them to write a fresh story. Melinoë was also tied to the occult side of Greek mythology, allowing them to introduce magic as a gameplay mechanic as well as the figure of Hecate, Melinoë's mentor.

Jen Zee remained as art director for Hades II, following her work on Hades. Among the voice cast includes Asa Butterfield as Icarus and Amelia Tyler as Hecate. Logan Cunningham, a staple of Supergiant's games, returned to voice Hades as well as Chronos and several other mythological figures.

Hades II was revealed during The Game Awards 2022 on December 8, 2022. A technical test began in April 2024 before its release to early access on May 5, 2024. Like its predecessor, Hades II features music by Darren Korb. The soundtrack was made available via Supergiant's YouTube account the same day as the early access launch.

On October 16, 2024, an expansion titled The Olympic Update, was released. It contained an entirely new region, weapons, and characters. The game also released on macOS with the release of this expansion.