The only way you can really get "good" at pvp is by practicing for lots and lots of time. Many of the very good PVP'ers that you see on youtube have played lots and lots of years ago.

Not just practice is important, practicing the right thing is the best thing you can do. So in this post, I'll go over what to practice, why its important, and then some general tips.

The very most important thing you can practice is your aim. Bow aim, rod aim, snowball aim, melee aim, just aim in general. If you can't aim, all the other things will be completely useless. I recommend training if you really want to with an aim trainer that you can find online. Either that or you can just play more minecraft pvp in general, as that helps your aim as well. However, before focusing on bow aiming, you should focus on melee and rod/snowball/egg aiming as those are the more important ones. alright guys i now realize due to some helpful guys in the comments that aim trainers won't help at all because you're holding left click and not spam clicking. However, there are SOME aim trainers that will make you spam left click and aim at the same time. However, i still stand by my point where if you play more MCpvp, you will get better at most things.

Now, im going to get into CPS. This is a very controversial topic, as many people have many arguments about this so freaking much. In pvp situations, you only really need 7-10 cps at most. Yeah sure, cps is cool and all, but its genuinely not that important. with training, you can just normal click 7-9 cps and that is all you need. The only real need for CPS is in speedbridging (all of those fancy bridges like moonwalk, telly, gb, etc etc) so really all you need is the ability to normal click at decently fast speeds.

Now for movement. PVP is VERY movement based, as the amount of blocks that you can hit someone is dependent on how fast you are moving, the faster you are, the more reach you have. And the opposite is true as well, the slower you are, the less reach you have. This is why you see people using fishing rods, snowballs, or blocks even, to slow someone down before hitting them with their sword. The reason that people do this is because all of these things slow someone down, making it much much easier to start and hold a combo when fighting someone. So, this is why you should practice rodding, using snowballs or eggs, or even placing blocks in front of someone to stop their movement and start a combo.

Sprint Resetting (also a part of movement but very important so i'll put it in a diff category). The way minecrafts KB works in 1.8 PVP is that you need to sprint reset to get more kb (which is needed to get good combos). After you sprint and hit someone, they will take an initial 3 blocks of KB when standing still, and then if you keep hitting without sprint resetting, they will take less KB as you aren't resetting your sprint. So, what you need to do after hitting someone is one of four things (these are the most common) 1: W tap (let go of W and start holding it again while still holding your sprint key) S tap (tap S while holding W and sprint key) Block hit (useful in other situations but you can right click your sword to slow you down and then reset your sprint) and crouch for a split second and then go back to sprinting. Also, remember that sometimes you don't want your enemy to get knocked off, or take more KB. sometimes, people hold S when they are in a combo so they can escape the combo and run away/heal. If you see someone doing this, stop W tapping and just keep hitting them normally.

GENERAL TIPS: these are some basic tips that are useful in most situations but aren't 100% needed.

install optifine, or a pvp client. (not to be confused with hacked clients)PVPlounge, Lunar, and others are all pretty good, and can boost your FPS and get you some cool mods that aren't cheating, but will help you with pvp.

Blockhit. So many people don't blockhit and its really just a bad idea not to. Blockhit whenever you are in a close situation and trading hits or in a closed off area and KB doesn't really matter. As i stated earlier, blockhitting can also be used to sprint reset.

HOTKEYING. Instead of using your scroll wheel or using your number keys, set your item slots to something else that is easier for you to reach. I personally use R, T, G, H for my 6-9th slot (nice?) and it works out for me, but you can always use whatever is comfortable for you. (such as your mouse buttons if you have any, or F, C, X, Z keys) Hotkeying is used for switching to different items faster, and is just a good idea for PVP. 